hi guys
what's up welcome back to the small
lytics channel
you guys before we roll into this live i
just need to
tell you where my head is at right now
um
i didn't want to skip out on this live
because i wanted to see you guys and if
you're here let me know
in the chat box who's here would love to
hang with you live and know who's in the
room um okay
so prior to this hi claire welcome
so prior to this live um i was like
getting set up for the live you know um
looking at some questions um hey lucy
hey
hey darya and i found out that my
my account was hacked and um i've had so
i'm still processing it it's just
happened like the last hour um
so yeah i found out my facebook account
for small lettuce for our business got
hacked
and a hacker is was
they we've stopped them but actively
stealing money from my paypal account um
and it just threw me off of it but i
still want to come on live
and uh just let you guys know that's
where my head is at right now like it's
just a lot to take in
um it makes you just think why are
people like this you know like you try
to put
good into the world to help people and
sometimes
there's just horrible people out there
um we were able to stop
the transactions and um the money that
they were
taking out through our facebook ads
account so we run facebook ads for the
smallitix business
and um they were funneling money out
through that um
it was so creepy too because i'll stop
talking about this in a second
but it was so creepy because i logged
into my facebook
security and i could see that there were
active users from like
serbia um a place i didn't recognize
and then all over the place like there
are multiple hackers just like crawling
on my account
you guys i hope this never happens to
any of you
such a nightmare um but i'm gonna use
the next
30-ish 20 minutes to get into a better
headspace with you guys
so you can help me cheer up and feel
better
um and uh so yeah let's jump into it so
today
i asked on my instagram for um questions
that you guys had
and um assumptions about me so it'll be
like a little toss-up between
those two things and if you have any
questions live while i'm here
just ask them in the chat box and um
it's way funner to answer questions if
you guys are like live
um and also if you're here right now
please give this video a thumbs up
support my channel it's a free and easy
way to support
support the small lytics community and i
appreciate it so much
okay so i'm going to pull them up and
we'll get into it i did want to make
i did want to make a matcha for this
live but i didn't have time because i
was dealing with those
pesky hackers terrible
um okay should we start with questions
or assumptions what are you guys feeling
um claire you already have a really
great question
um what was the most refreshing
over this past week for you well i think
that's i love that question
actually a question that um gary and i
ask each other a lot is
what was the highlight of your day so
this kind of feels like that type of
question
i think um the most refreshing thing was
just enjoying
a quiet thanksgiving with gary's mother
and really enjoying my food feeling
present with my food
not over indulging but still eating
dessert um and just feeling really
thankful for
that mindset that i have with food that
i've built over the years
um feeling grateful to have like a more
quiet thanksgiving
um that was very refreshing for sure
love that question
um darya i will get to your question too
um
if you guys keep asking a couple in the
chat box then we'll get to them
um i'm gonna start with a couple that
are on my instagram also i hope you guys
don't mind i need to just grab my water
because i'm feeling
a little raspy so one one sec one sec
so
thank you for waiting we are back
and i'm hydrated so now we can begin
okay
so um some questions uh to begin with
how do you work out on your period this
is a great question i actually addressed
it a little bit more in depth a few
weeks ago on my instagram but
generally if you are if you are someone
who really
struggles with working out um
on your period and this is a monthly
thing like
month to month you find yourself
not able to get out of bed or just kind
of binge eating
um having crazy intense cravings having
really bad cramps
and it's sabotaging your results like
each month it's a thing that
that kind of knocks you out of your
routine excuse me i would highly
recommend speaking with your doctor
because
uh it should be in a place where it can
be manageable
because you don't want to get thrown out
of your healthy routine once a month
right
um that's for the extreme extreme cases
if you find that you just are a little
crampy you just don't feel your best
that's totally okay
it's about kind of learning how to do
things on that day that make you feel
good
without sabotaging your goals right so
if you can
um do some light movement that's great
like go on a walk
if you absolutely need to rest that's of
course absolutely fine
um and uh if you can lift
light weights that's also fine it's real
every woman's different and you're
really gonna have to get in tune with
your body
but the most important thing is that you
just get really honest with yourself and
say
you know am i eating this chocolate
because
i'm on my period and i deserve it or am
i eating it because i actually want it
and
it's you know i'm not gonna just eat
mindlessly because i'm on my period
um there's actually this really
interesting study that
my um one of my friends sent me that
showed that there are cultural
differences
in cravings around uh menstruation and
cycles
depending on where you live in the world
and it said in the us
that we attend women in the us reported
having higher cravings
than women in um i think it was
africa or eastern europe it was
basically across the world
um and that we have specifically
chocolate cravings and the article
was a review um it concluded
it attributed those cravings to
consumerism and advertising
in western society so like all of those
ads we get um
for chocolate and just in movies and pop
culture we're always told like
on our periods we crave sweets and stuff
so
also just ask yourself am i really
craving this or is this just something
that i've just done
for so long um so that's just a bunch of
food for thought
obviously you need to listen to your
body you need to talk with your doctor
um but the goal is just for you to feel
good about what you're able to do on
your period
and when you find something that works
for you that's that's what matters
you don't have to do what i do you don't
have to do what other women do you just
want to find a place where you are not
um finding yourself being set back every
month
it's not going to be the best week every
month right but you just don't want to
get back and back and back
um so that answers that question
um darya you asked a question how do i
make myself feel more confident
about myself so i don't know you
personally right there's
a lot of um things that are probably
playing into this
but my top recommendations is
journaling therapy uh
exercising if you can and even it
doesn't have to be you know you're going
to the gym and lifting heavy weights if
you can just
go for a walk every day start to do
little things that make you feel good
um and i think that's a lot to start
with to be honest but
i cannot recommend um those things
enough just getting more
aware about you know why don't you feel
confident what what's bothering you
what's holding you up what have you
um emotionally had to deal with in the
last year or years
um and start to do things for your
physical and your mental health that
will
make you feel good in your body um
there's so many things that play into
that but if you have a more specific
question about like confidence in the
gym or like how do you feel confident in
the gym that's kind of a different
answer i would give but
generally speaking um start with
how you are on the inside because
working you know just losing fat or like
getting
in really good shape that's not gonna
fix confidence or happiness
um sometimes it can make it you know
better sometimes it can make it worse
but it's not going to fix the core
so make sure you're doing that inner
work on yourself
um and i just realized that i didn't
even introduce myself to any new
people that are here who are not in the
short girl gang already um
so i'll make it quick but i'm april
whitney i'm a certified nutritionist
certified personal trainer and i'm the
founder of smallettics which is the
channel you're watching
um we are a the leading online community
for petite women in health and fitness
space and i'm also the founder of the
petit power program which is
our 12-week transformation program for
petite it's a group coaching program
um and we talk about all things fitness
health and lifestyle for petite women
um hey paula welcome you're new here
that's awesome
um in general the small edits community
is about
five foot four and shorter but if you
resonate with being petite and you don't
fit in that
shortness category that's you're welcome
here like you can sit with us of course
um
and petite is not just like
your body shape it's not body shape it's
just height so you can be any body shape
any weight
um and still be in the short girl gang
under my definition
um so welcome okay let's move on to some
next questions
um darya you also asked how you make
muscular legs more slim
and am i obsessed with harry styles um
those are very unrelated questions um
i'm not obsessed with harry styles
although i did like his watermelon song
is that harry styles i think it is i see
i don't really even know
um i'm not if let me know if there's a
reason why you asked
that question um in terms of making your
legs more slim
it's going to come down to your
nutrition uh i do have two
videos on my channel if you just search
in my channel
uh thighs or legs two really great
how-to videos i would anything i say
here is not going to be better than
those specific videos i made so go check
those out
um okay you guys so
i'm just going to look through a few
more someone asked me to talk about
cellulite um
i could talk about that cellulite um
body fat
it's something that we all have it's
natural it occurs on all women
i have it um even if you have really low
body fat percentage
um even if you're an athlete you're
still going to have it especially as
women we need
body fat in order to have a healthy
period to
just have our hormones be in balance um
in terms of cellulite that you want to
lose like if you have excess if you have
weight to lose you want to lose
weight um you would use lose cellulite
the same way that you would
go to lose fat so you cannot spot reduce
it on your belly unfortunately
you can't do like 100 million crunches
and
target your abs to lose cellulite you
have to be
in uh you have to be in a working on
losing fat and overall in your body to
lose fat
anywhere so it once you start eating
better you start
lifting weights um increasing your
metabolism instead of
decreasing calories you will start to
see a reduction in body fat from all
over
which is great um
if that's your goal of course
i think on this um
someone asked me what kind of casual
clothes i wear um
sweatshirts and i pretty much am always
in casual clothes so
hoodies like sweats
leggings you know how it is unless i'm
like going out to dinner
then i actually try a little bit um
melissa hey melissa what's up girl
uh melissa asked how do you prepare for
a workout what do i eat before and after
and do i stretch before and after
yeah great question so i typically
work out in the mornings i get up around
30 ish give or take
and i will typically have a small
protein shake
just something to get some energy in the
tank i have about
15 grams of protein 15 grams of carbs
and very low fat
so like one to two grams of fat um
that's because you want to have carbs
and protein
in the tank the fats you don't need
during a workout they actually just slow
down your digestion
they're good for being full but you
don't need them for the muscle
building process like right when you're
working out um so i have that little
shake
i do a dynamic warm-up right in my
living room so i do like
uh world's greatest stretch i do some
banded stuff i do like
lateral banded walks activate the glutes
and then i jog out over to my neighbor's
place because she has a gym that's
open right now and nicer than the one in
my building
we lift weights together i jog home
and then when i get home i stretch i do
static stretching so
you always want to leave static
stretching which is when you hold a
stretch
for a period of time so like this is a
static stretch
whereas like a dynamic stretch would be
like something you're
you're taking your body through a
basically a range of motion
excuse me so um i'll do static stretch
yes this is really live new ha ha
i'm here with you um static stretching
and then i have a post workout meal
which is usually higher in carbohydrates
higher in protein and then moderate fat
so this morning i a lot of food is on my
instagram by the way if you want to see
what i eat
this morning i had egg whites sourdough
bread
um cheese i had a matcha i had some
peanut butter
it was it was a solid breakfast that is
a great question it's really important
to static stretch after you're done as
well
but leave the static stretching for
later because when you statically
stretch before a workout the studies
show that it reduces your
output your power during workout so
you it basically just stretches the
muscles a little bit too much you want
them to be like springy
and have that like snap back um so the
dynamic stuff gets your body ready
without overstretching it
overworking it um
hi jazz thank you so much jazz asked i
want to know if hip abduction workout
really decreases the appearance of hip
tips
okay good question so hip dips that will
dent in the side your hip this is a
natural thing
that exists on women this is not
something that that happens because you
did anything or you did something wrong
or you didn't do something
um hiptips are totally natural it's
totally natural to have them um everyone
has them
people have them to different degrees
because
of either how they're standing or their
their hip bone structure
um in itself but there's really no
workouts that you can do
to change it you can of course work on
your glutes like doing hip abduction
like you said
to build up your glute mead but it's not
going to change there's not a lot
happening right where that hip dip is
there's um not a ton of muscle there
um so you can work on your glutes you
can work on just
strength in general but it's okay to
have hip dips and they're natural um
and there's nothing unattractive or
weird about them i find them totally
normal just like the human body
um
welcome melissa
um kathy asked about workout underwear
it's so funny um kathy so many people
ask me about this but
i never talk about i just like to wear
like seamless um
just like seamless so that i wear you
know tight leggings something that
doesn't show
um usually it's like a it's like if you
go victoria's secret and you look at
their seamless stuff
it's any of that stuff is really great
under leggings
um see when you ask thoughts on fast
workouts i get up really early to work
out before teaching i don't have time to
get up and eat wait 30 minutes before i
start lifting
yeah so that used to be me too um i also
used to not eat before i work out i
still do it sometimes it really depends
if you eat enough it
there's also a chance the next day your
energy stores are
not fully depleted yet so you're
actually fine working out um
in a fasted state you'll still have some
energy in the tank that you can
build off of um the real issue is you
don't want to train in a fasted state if
you're noticing that you're lightheaded
or you're dizzy during workout that's
when it's like okay
maybe a little bit too low blood
pressure too low sugar
and you need to get like something quick
and like a few bites of a banana or
something
um so just keep out keep a lookout for
how you're feeling and also if you're
not going to have a pre-workout meal
just make sure that you get that
post-workout meal
and you really restore your glycogen
stores and you start working on the
muscle repair process you do that by
having a post-workout meal that has
carbs and protein so
just make sure you get a solid meal
after and you're fine
um new how you asked if you've ever made
a video for people who have never
exercised but they want to start i do
i would say a lot of my videos are
helpful if you've never
started before um or you've never
exercised but i don't have one
specifically so
thank you for that idea i will
definitely write it down in the
in the list of things to create for you
guys
um but a lot of my videos are are like
beginner through intermediate level
lifting so
zero to five plus years of lifting
weights you can still
learn a lot on this channel um
awesome okay going back to this should
we do some
assumptions about me should we do some
more questions there were some really
funny assumptions about me that you guys
have on instagram
um one of them was that i'll read them
to you guys
one of them i put on my story so you've
already seen it if you follow me
um
i feel like you're a quiet dirty kid in
school but got along with anyone
and there was another one that said you
were a geek back in college
um and then i asked all of you guys
if you thought this was true and 60 said
yes and 40
said no so just to answer this one um i
have always been great at academics i
was a nerd i would say in terms of
like i love learning i also studied
science and technology studies
and i had two i double minored so i did
a lot at school
while also being a division one athlete
um
and competing internationally so i would
say yes
but i also uh was very social
um i was in a sorority but i didn't
participate in that much really but i
was
i was in social groups um i
i would say i would agree with the one
that this sounds weird to agree with the
one that said
you got along with anyone i would say
i'm not a contentious
person like i never i don't think i
pissed anyone off
um i'm not i don't like being the center
of attention i like to just like
have a small group of friends that i'm
really close with and i like studied
pretty much finding my own business yeah
so
that was a question that or an
assumption that i thought was funny
uh but i wasn't the kid who was like in
the library every single day like
i i had a good balanced college life i'd
say and college was
over five years ago now i graduated in
2014.
whoa long time ago
um okay going back to other assumptions
um there's one that i really wanted to
address because
i think it's really important um
someone said uh my life is perfect and i
wanted to bring this up
because instagram is such a highlight
reel um nobody's life is perfect it's
like not even
the person that looks so perfect online
and has like the best body and the best
whatever
the best i don't know whoever you fall
online you idolize
um nobody's life is perfect this is a
highlight reel
um in terms of the smaller stage it's
education
real as well it's a lot of stuff that
i'm posting to help you guys
and to help you feel more confident and
stronger and healthier in your bodies
um but i would say my life is great i
love my life i love my fiance
um i love my cat and i'm so fortunate to
live in this apartment where i do in
brooklyn um
but nobody's life is perfect right like
everybody has their thing so
just remember when you're swollen on
instagram um
that it's it's a it's a curated
feed right and people are showing you
what they want you to see
and sometimes i have to remind myself of
that too just looking on instagram and
seeing like
how how much is out there that seems to
be so perfect and
you know just reality check that you
know i'm real with you guys and
life is not like that life is an
instagram right
someone asked me have i ever wish i was
taller and if so how did i ever overcome
that secure insecurity i do have a video
all about this on my youtube channel but
um
yeah i wish i was taller all through
pro probably until my until college
it was like it was something i struggled
with immensely and what led to me
starting
uh small addicts in general um it's not
something i think about ever now i
absolutely love my height
it's uh it's just not who you are it's
just a part of you
um and it was the worst when i was a kid
it was the worst when i was like being
bullied
as a young kid and boys would pick on me
or um
pick me up like stuff just felt made me
feel vulnerable as a as a kid and like a
little short kid
um but you know i grew out of that and
then
um it also resurfaced actually i lied it
resurfaced when i worked in
corporate america in new york city when
i was in manhattan um
i worked in advertising and all the
women
wore like big stiletto like heels to the
office
and i remember when i had my first job i
felt like i had two
as well because not only were these
women like five seven but on top of that
they were wearing heels
so if i didn't wear heels i would look
like i was like
like i'd be forgotten in a room and uh
so that was a that resurfaced as a
struggle um
but i you know i stopped at a certain
point i
i just stopped i would wear flats if i
wanted to i'd wear sneakers i'd like
where
i'd like dress up something um or dress
down something with sneakers um
and i that felt so much better you guys
if you it will always feel so much
better to be yourself and to own
then you're trying to be something else
like
just try it out one day try out try
something out
it might feel a little vulnerable or
insecure at first but
it feels so much better to just do you
and you'll be
noticed and appreciated and respected so
much more for just being who you are
and if who you are is someone who loves
to wear heels and that's fine too
that's that's absolutely great
um wow there's so many questions now um
what's my nationality and backgrounds i
am
caucasian i uh sort of an american
much i would say lots of european
descent
polish swedish um
yeah a little bit of everything um best
tips for college students maintaining
good diets and workouts when they are
busy not well funded
absolutely sarah i would say get your
friends involved
um start establishing some kind of
accountability for yourself
and uh um also
try to cook as many meals as you can
that saves money as well if you can just
cook dinners at home that helps a lot
um try not to rely on processed foods
that are just around
um and just try to move a little bit
each day if all you can get in is
a couple walks that's fine if you can
squeeze in 30 minutes
doing some light weights that's even
better um but just start small
and try to get your friends involved
that's going to change everything
like if you can get your friends into
going to the gym with you or just like
doing and i mean that's not right now
with covid but like
doing things with you that are fun and
active and um
that will help a lot um
jasmine you asked would i recommend
fencing to petite women
um i mean the cool thing if that didn't
give it away um
the cool thing about fencing and if you
guys don't know i used to be a formerly
internationally ranked fencer um
the amazing thing about fencing is that
you can virtually be any height
and still really be an incredible
um some of the best sensors in the world
are my height uh
they're not the majority by names uh but
some
are and um it's a lot of athleticism but
also combined with you know
your mind and your strategy so what's
great is that
when you're smaller you have a smaller
target so even if you have a shorter
wingspan just shorter reach to your
opponent
they your opponent is taller has way
more target area and
yeah they are coming at you and you have
smaller target area so
there's kind of trade-offs and that's
what i always loved about the sport i
think petit women should absolutely
fence
it's very empowering especially for
young women of any heights
very empowering to do to learn how to
sword fight
um and uh it gave me a lot of confidence
as a young girl
for sure
um melissa another great question you
asked how i take care of my hair uh
working out often um so basically i
don't wash my hair every time i work out
and just bear with me
i know that that sounds weird maybe but
um it's not i promise i basically i only
wash it
uh maybe twice a week with shampoo um
the rest of the time i don't sweat a ton
like i'll sweat in my roots but i'll
just
air dry it use some dry shampoo give it
a good scalp massage
and it actually kind of looks better
after a few days like there's more
volume
this is freshly washed hair washed it
this morning so it's flatter on me right
now
but um yeah i just there's nothing wrong
with a little bit more
like not like it's okay to have like
your natural oils
in your hair um dry shampoos are
effective it's also better for your hair
to not wash it every day
ask your hairstylist about it they will
they'll tell you that
um but yeah i just like i i had to train
my hair to be this way though because
when you first start
like when you first first switch to
shampooing the less often
your oil glands can become like
overactive and it can take some time
to get to a point where you're not over
producing
oil but you can get to a point where
it's like still looks clean on day three
um yeah claire said i don't wash my hair
every time i work out either
totally um okay let's do a few more we
have like three minutes left
uh let's see
someone asked me if i'm getting another
cat or
sesame he's over there is gonna be a
soul child um yeah he we're not if
gabriel won't let me again
if it were up to me i would have like 20
cats in here but um
i am i would just have we're in a a one
bedroom
studio a one bedroom apartment in
brooklyn and
if we had another cat it would be very
crowded in here so
for now just sesame in here
uh let's see
gonna look at
some other ones okay
can doing too much cardio mess up your
metabolism if so how to ease into
reducing it
yes it can 100
overdoing your cardio can put you in a
deficit
just like eating too few calories can
and when you combine the two it can
become very bad
um can be way under eating over
exercising
um and this can um
make you um it can stress out
your adrenal glands it can or overwork
them i should say you don't want to get
adrenal fatigue
you don't want to have cortisol which is
the stress hormone being overproduced in
your bloodstream because that
can inhibit fat loss it can mess with
your sleep
it can just make you ravenously hungry
so that you end up eating back the
calories
which then it begins this nasty cycle of
over exercising so that you can eat and
then
over exercising so you can eat you don't
want to be there um
so um you asked
how do you reduce it you want to reduce
it very slowly
so if you run an hour every day god
forbid i hope you don't
you should start take a day off of that
maybe
excuse me um bring it down to
um you know six days a week instead of
seven
and monitor your metrics um
journal and over time just it has to be
slow it's gonna take
probably a few months to the point where
you get it down to a reasonable area but
you just want to do it slowly so your
metabolism can
adjust slowly over time your body can
adjust and get used to
lower cardio thresholds
um will we still be hungry when eating
in our maintenance
uh you shouldn't maintenance calories
means that you're not
you're not in a deficit and you're not
in a surplus so you should be
satisfied when you eat not overstuffed
but not left
super hungry um there may be times where
you get hungry like right before a meal
and when you maybe when you go to sleep
but also it depends
um and you should not be hungry on
maintenance that would mean you were
probably in a caloric deficit
but like a little like just satisfied
you should just be satisfied shouldn't
be like thinking about food all the time
um just looking at what your comments
say
okay you guys it looks like we've gone a
little bit over um there were a lot of
questions i didn't get to
but i really hope you enjoyed this live
um like i said
at the beginning of this live i found
out that my paypal account was hacked by
a hacker and so i entered this live with
a little bit of frantic energy but um
thank you for sticking with me through
it um please give this video a like to
support
this channel in this community amazing
and i hope to do a live with you guys
soon um
and we will chat soon have a wonderful
rest of your day
see you later bye